welcome back again everyone thanks for
tuning in to the concluding episode of
this 10 part series that examine the big
picture of this terrible warlord era as
I said at the outset this was an oft
requested topic here at the China
history podcast these warlords have
always been a subject of great interest
in popular Chinese history there were a
lot of historical events happening in
China during the 20th century in these
years from 1916 to 1928 are often swept
under the rug and don't get as much
attention so I hope this series helped
to fill in a few blanks for you and as
we have seen throughout the past
episodes these warlords weren't such a
great bunch of guys
interesting yes in some cases downright
unforgettable I've introduced a number
of them to you and tried to show you how
they operated and what some of them were
all about they made incalculable
contributions to the arts of greed and
looking out for number one took it to
great heights in all the thousands of
years of Chinese history going back to
you the great the land had time and
again produced these incredible leaders
and heroes who founded dynasty save the
country from invasion or brought great
peace and prosperity to the land but
during the 1920s rather than having a
great leader a nation builder waiting in
the wings to I don't know make China
great again instead you had these
warlords and with their armies and the
might they wielded and the odious and
egregious lengths they went to to enrich
themselves and you know guard their
power for the sake of the perks of power
and all the human suffering they caused
their greatest crime was perhaps that
they held China back at the historical
worst possible moment while Japan in the
West were sent in the world on fire with
all the discoveries and benefits of the
Industrial Revolution and the
engineering innovations of the Roaring
Twenties China wasted decades first
dealing with a dysfunctional and dying
Imperial house and then with these
generals and majors
in a world of their own drag in the
country down not to mention the good
people of China - after the northern
expedition officially ended in the
summer of 1928 Beijing had been taken
all the victorious generals had their
great moment and then Chiang kai-shek
called a meeting of all the big names at
the time and he held it over in the
western hills just outside of Beijing
fungus yung Yin Shi Shan by cheolma she
lead some grin and others there was this
big ceremony where they all visited Sun
yat-sen's tomb you know it was still up
in Beijing at this time and they paid
their respects to the spiritual founder
of the KMT now Jung will later have an
elaborate mausoleum built in Nanjing and
it's there where the father of modern
china was later interred and remains
today if you remember from that old
morris two-gun Cohen episode CHP 130 and
131 ya moisha was part of that cortege
that brought son's body to its final
resting place in Nanjing and by the way
moistu didn't do too bad in the arms
business during the warlord era and some
of you may or may not recall Sir Edmund
Backhouse yeah II too dabbled in the
arms biz during this conference in the
western hills with all his allies
Jiang laid out his master plan and
discussed the matter of demilitarization
and centralizing everything although
nobody got up and walked out of the
meeting it wasn't received very well by
any of these men present the whole idea
about surrendering their power over the
regions they controlled for the sake of
a strong central government well I
didn't like the idea in 1916 and didn't
like it in 1928 either when they saw
what Jiang's plan looked like these
warlords began to have second thoughts
again but for now well no one was saying
or doing anything it was always the same
thing they were cool with being part of
the Republic of China they just insisted
that they be left alone by the center to
run their province and maintain an army
that's what it boiled down to Eastern
Joe dynasty mentality I guess he could
say like duquon of cheap back in the
seventh century BCE hey he was happy to
say yeah yeah yeah to the Joe dynasty
King in law young as long as that King
didn't try and interfere in Qi internal
affairs same with these warlords and
Chiang kai-shek and his Nanjing
government in their eyes these warlords
looked at Chung kai-shek and thought
yeah he was just another one of them why
should they surrender their power to him
Jiang said reality was that he was only
the master of the Yangtze River region
from Wuhan de Shanghai in Chang soo and
Cho Chang and parts of Shandong province
that's it everywhere else in China
like I said eastern jo dynasty before we
start looking at the events in 1929 and
1930 let's take a step back and talk
about something else pretty important
that concerned the Warlord's that's been
going on in the background around the
time of the northern expedition and I
sort of left you hanging about whatever
happened to the dog meet general Jung
Chung Chung now this whole sidebar to
the warlord era that I want to quickly
mentioned concerned him and his former
right-hand man in this military
organization Leo Chen Yin aka the killer
so you know right away he's no Yin Shi
Xiong during his glory years running
Shandong province Jiang dong Qiang had
two main guys watching his back
Qiu Yu poo and Leo Chang yen as
Warlord's went and as far as the
superlative of the worst elements that
Warlord's embodied these three set the
standard thanks to them Shandong
province had a hard decade and a half
they epitomized all the most well-known
warlord antics that peasants had become
accustomed to all these years standing
by helpless well warlord troops grabbed
what they could using all the
intimidation tactics that an army at
your beck and call can muster
villagers especially those in Shandong
Province were all three of these guys
operated we're made to hand over food
anything of value including their pack
animals
and to escape the worst of the looting
villages and towns would be asked
quotation marks around the word asked to
pay a departure tax that would spare
them the worst atrocities and allow the
troops to go quietly the same thing when
these bandit forces would march into a
village or town you know they'd demand
some kind of welcome payment they you
know what that would guarantee the
locals there wouldn't be any trouble
with them passing through or staying
around to rest up and live off their
hospitality everything about these guys
always came down to money and those who
had the least were forced to hand over
the most and when famines floods and
other natural disasters hits you can be
sure whatever relief supplies donated by
the city folk or from overseas and that
stuff would often miss its mark and get
plundered and sold on the black market
banks were forced to extend loans to
these warlords and they knew they'd
never get repaid and after so many years
the warlords simply became a cost of
doing business
anyone or any organization that was well
endowed financially were targeted by
warlords and forced to buy these
worthless bonds you know that their
military government would issue I
already mentioned warlords were big
proponents of you know printing
worthless money and these outrageous
denominations people from the top to the
bottom of society were constantly being
shaken down by warlords and their
subordinates they levy taxes on so many
daily use items and even on prostitutes
in many places there were dozens and
even hundreds of different taxes on
seemingly every product or service that
she could tax and if this wasn't bad
enough sometimes to accelerate the
amount of taxes that could be farmed
warlords would demand taxes be paid
years in advance and they'd even be
applied retroactively late and the great
Chinese national hero Lin says she who
stood up to the foreign powers in 1839
if he had lived to see how huge of a
comeback opium had made and what a cash
cow had become again he would about his
head and shame opium monopolies to
market the drug in certain areas were
sold off and you could bet these
warlords levy taxes on production
transport the sale and the use of opium
it was a huge money spinner yes the drug
trade always is if you recall Chun Hong
Chang's army got walloped in the
northern expedition and got taken down
more than a few notches this was due in
part to the defection of his now former
right-hand man Leo Chun yen to the NRA
side yeah he was another one biting the
hand that fed him well after getting
chased out of Shandong Chiang song-chun
ultimately ended up in Italian and
pretty much got high all day gambled and
engaged in all the excesses he was well
known for and what was left of his army
though still loyal to chunks will Chung
let's just say they got a little flabby
and undisciplined as they awaited their
bosses come back Leo Chen Yin the killer
had profited greatly from his defection
in October 1928 to Chiang kai-shek side
he got put in charge of a portion of
eastern Shandong province what's
important to know is that life under Leo
Chun Yuans rule in eastern Shandong was
shockingly unpleasant I've already given
you an idea the kind of things that went
on almost as soon as Leo chun-yin took
over the people began rising up against
him and kept him preoccupied dealing
with all these tempest in a teapot
boiling over everywhere so in early 1929
Chiang song-chun seeing how low was
distracted with all these uprisings and
also itching to restore his fortunes
started stirring things up in Shandong
Province in his determination to bring
Leo chun-yin down he cobbled together a
rebel army of former troops and other
men without a master looking to get back
into the game and this dogged me general
launched this rebellion in northeast
Shandong against Leo chun-yin not much
to say except that it didn't last long
January to May 1929 but the kinds of
things that went on kinds of things the
civilian population had to endure gave
the rapin on
a run for its money in terms of wanton
violence and destruction
Jeong Jeong Chang famously while all
this fighting was going on was
constantly partying and living the lie
for which he had become accustomed he
was the head of the rebels but always
found time to you know have some fun and
relaxation leo chun-yan despite his
troops best efforts by April 1929 this
backstabbing former right-hand man to
the dogmeat general was losing a few key
battles and on the defensive all Jung's
home Chung's army had to do now was go
in for the kill and maybe I don't know
after spoken too much opium who knows
the general carnita Pierrot Chang Chong
Chang he dreamed up this league of
legends who he tried to bring together
at this hour you know to take out the
KMT his remaining trusty right-hand man
Qiu Yu poo as well as Yin Shi Shan will
pay fool by Chun chi Chi Shan and others
were called upon to unite as one in this
common cause well needless to say the
reason why you probably might not recall
anything happening involving this this
warlord super group is because this
whole idea fizzled out before anything
came of it but this was the kind of
madness going on in mid 1929 and I
haven't even gotten to the central
plains war that's also going on let's
finish this up first
as soon as Chang Chong Chong got a taste
of victory in this rebellion against Leo
Chen Yin his troops they just fell to
pieces discipline broke down to the
point where his forces the other rebel
soldiers and officers everyone the whole
thing just devolved into another classic
free-for-all with all these soldiers and
bandits preying on the lives of every
villager that came upon and every single
nook and cranny of the northeast
Shandong countryside you know if you go
to Manchuria Liao Ning mostly but hey
Long's young and Jillian as well there
are a lot of people living there who
came from Shandong and it was during
this warlord rebellion in northeastern
Shandong during the first half of 1929
that's so many of them migrated north to
Manchuria jong-hong Chang after looking
like he was gonna make that comeback
faced a complete route on the
battlefield and whatever he had managed
to hold together was lost he tried to
escape to Dalian on April 23rd 1929 but
the Japanese wouldn't let him stay he
got sent off to Japan we'll get back to
him later and whilst cooling his heels
in Japan after this failed uprising he
one day accidentally shot some prince
who was a cousin to the deposed last
Emperor Puyi that clan was a very
interesting royal family in exile
anyways by the summer of 1929 Leo
chun-yin started mopping up from the
defeat he had handed to all these rebel
allies of the dog meat general but
during the second half of 1929 Leo
chun-yin focused all his attention on
wiping out this other problem that had
been dogging him all along while he was
trying to vanquish John song-chun and
his rebel armies these were the red
spares a very interesting story from
Chinese history
lots of legends and tales about these
guys these red spares had been harassing
the warlord armies for too many years
and had become very emboldened with
their actions their numbers that were as
high as 50 to 60,000 trained and
fearless troops the red spare society
the Hong Chun way they came about as a
result of the lawlessness throughout the
provinces some places were worse than
others of course but the peasantry
living out in the villages especially
during these years when Chang Chong
Chang Chu you poo and yo Chun yen were
robbing and a stabbing
Lewton and a shootin and plundering al
and their troops as well as these
roaming gangs of bandits X soldiers who
departed their units and other assorted
ruffians they had developed a good eye
for a hot meal in a village to ransack
and to defend against these bandit gangs
these villages in an age-old tradition
in Chinese history would pool their
resources and maintain these rural
defense organization
who would be just big and scary enough
to keep these roving bandit kings moving
on to easier meat elsewhere and in that
part of China they became known as red
spares some were less ragtag than others
and were well organized and could
inflict some heavy damage when The Times
called for that they mostly operated out
of the provinces of Hebei Hunan and Shan
dong as well as in Manchuria and for the
entire time from the establishment of
Manchu quo in 1932 until Japan's end in
China came in 1945 these red spares were
a snake and a boot to the Japanese
Guangdong Army and resisted them
whenever the opportunity presented
itself it was this horrible and bloody
period of intra warlord fighting in
Shandong that forced so many peasants to
join the ranks of the red spears
probably the worst of these uprisings
happen in Northeast Shandong from 1928
to 1929 when these events I've just
described were all happening let me
quote from Elizabeth J Perry's book
rebels and revolutionaries in North
China 1845 to 1945 quote like the boxers
the red Spears evidenced a heavy dose of
popular religious inspiration members
believing themselves impervious to enemy
weapons if they observe the necessary
rituals pronounced the proper
incantations and swallowed the
prescribed charms and again resembling
the boxers the red Spears were ears to
another equally vital legacy the militia
tradition of rural self-defense end
quote
when the chaos of the early Republican
era reached a fever pitch after the fall
of the Ching dynasty the people of North
China especially had to put up with
almost twenty years again jacked by all
these bandits and soldiers from warlord
armies which in a lot of cases were one
in the same so the red Spears initially
came into being as protectors of the
countryside not every village could be
defended there were too many spread out
across Shandong Hebei and Holman Worthy
worst of the atrocities were committed
there were a number of large and small
uprisings involved
the Red Spears fighting back against the
twin terrors of Shandong Province first
the dog meat general in 1926 and then
again in 1928 1929 against the killer
Leo chun-yin in a 1926 issue of Chinese
students monthly someone wrote of these
defenders of the oppressed quote these
boxers call themselves red Spears while
the object of the previous uprising was
purely anti-foreign the red Spears is a
spontaneous peasants movement the name
of red spear society must have existed
five to six years ago there was a group
of gymnastic people who had the useful
and necessary habit of defending
themselves and their villages by long
and red tasseled Spears is an
institution it may be just the remnants
of the boxers head quote you know if you
google red Spears and martial arts there
are all kinds of stories legends and
styles that grew out of their society
especially in training and hand-to-hand
combat and they used these martial arts
skills that they developed to defend
their villages homes and livelihoods
against this never-ending scourge of
banditry and lawlessness by early 1929
the excesses of leo union's rule were so
oppressive that the red spears directed
their efforts to bringing him down it
all started with mutinies within Leo
Jung Eun's ranks late in January 1929
just as jong-hong Chang was starting the
rebellion up in northeast Shandong a lot
of these mutant eat soldiers and
officers joined with the red Spears
against Leo chun-yin who again had his
hands full dealing with his warlord
rebellion and northeast Shandong the red
spares used this chaos as a way to
organize and grow their numbers but as I
said end of April 1929 despite having
the upper hand
Chung Hong Hong was defeated and this
allowed Leo's armies to focus their
attention on problem number two okay I
won't drag this out basically his big
and tough as the red spares were in the
end
Leo Chen Yin packed a mean punch they
didn't call him the killer for nothing
Jerry Lee Lewis - Leo had a formidable
army the best weapons and was more than
happy to carry out a scorched earth
policy all over the parts of Shandong
his troops marched in his relentless
mission to snuff out every possible red
spear base around yantai and other parts
of the province and before the end of
the year 1929 the job was done and the
red spears had been neutralized but
their legend lived on okay let's get
back to where we left off with Jon
kai-shek things appeared okay on a
surface and the weeks and months
following the raising of the nationalist
flag in Beijing or Bey ping as it was
renamed following the conquest and of
1928 I told you we already know who's
grumbling behind Young's back so on the
symbolic day of October 10th this time
in the year 1928
Jian kai-shek was formally named the
head of the Republic he was also the top
man in the party and the
commander-in-chief of the military and
that as many titles as the current
president of China but still he was at
the peak of his prestige and power on
the Chinese mainland the Nanjing decade
was off and running as 1929 dawned it
came time for action Jiang had made it
clear what his intentions were now it
was time to show your cards Chung
intended to fold all these warlords and
their armies and assets into this new
centralized military force with Jung in
charge of course and a few of these
warlords as I mentioned it began to have
buyer's remorse when considering this
new life they had to look forward to now
punching a clock for someone else versus
having the absolute power they enjoyed
all these years being the Doojoon or
military governor of their province or
territory yeah they give him a little
face and draw them into the government
Chung had made Yin Shi Shan his Minister
of the Interior and fungus young
Minister of War not bad except
after the life they had lived yeah those
two were bored with their jobs in two
seconds flat
you know John kai-shek didn't give a
speech in front of a big sign that said
mission accomplished but it seemed as
far as the northern expedition went that
it was over
but alas this miserable and destructive
epic refused to die and go away all
these former warlords they all basically
bolted from John's Nanjing government
and went back into the warlord in
business of protecting their turf
farming their provinces for all they can
get and keeping the central authorities
at bay and always keeping an eye out for
any kind of opportunity that knocked on
their door fungus Chang went back to
controlling his parts of Inner Mongolia
Gansu Shan she and her nan Yin Shi Shan
of course held down the fort in his home
province of Shaanxi the young marshal
Zhang Xiao Liang he too for the time
being had given up on Chiang and was
disappointed with Jiang's plans for
Manchuria but he remained neutral and
waited on the fence to see how things
played out and asked for the the guanxi
warlords who had served Chan so well
lead Tong Ren and by Chong she they were
the first ones to walk away from him in
March 1929 and they headed back to their
strongholds in Guangdong and Guangxi and
with all this resistance to Jian
kai-shek wafting in the air one jingwei
saw an opening to get back into the fray
so he returned to China and joined up
with fungus young and Yin Shi shine in a
rival political group called the
enlarged conference of the KMT such
young once again had a waste precious
time that could have been more
productively spent trying to get his
nanjing government up and running
carrying out the the massive
reconstruction of the country and try to
rebuild the nation to its former glory
before the ching emperors and the
Republican era Warlord's allowed it to
decay it seemed like it was going to
come down to one last and final hurrah
and this was the central plains
war of March 1929 to November 1930 and
of all the wars I've mentioned going
back to the Juliana a war when the
forces of tau Coonan and will pay food
defeated when she raised on pay army
back in 1920 this one was the most
destructive in the thousands of years of
Chinese history these lands had never
seen anything like this and there was
still a lot worse to come over the next
couple decades now here we are at the
end of 1929 so many years later in these
warlords the ones left standing they
were making this last-ditch effort to
hold on to what they had gotten used to
all these years and everything I
mentioned about the warlord rebellion in
Northeast Shandong and the rise and fall
of the red spares well that was all
going on concurrently to this early 1929
the warlord rebellion was over and late
1929 Leo chun-yin had put the red Spears
to the sword and one other thing we'll
come back and look at this more closely
on another day but right around this
time Jiang also set up his very
effective secret police organization his
old pal from the Whampoa Military
Academy Dai Li the Himmler of China it
was called in a head up the army secret
police and chen lifu
yeah he was put in charge of the
innocuous sounding investigation section
of the KMT organization department yeah
you didn't want those guys knocking on
your door after hours much more about
these two guys later in the year I know
several of you have written to me over
the years asking when thigh Lee was
gonna get his CHP moment anyways in
November 1929 fungus young led the
charge and formed a warlord coalition to
oppose Chiang kai-shek who everyone knew
was coming after them in the eternal foe
of Chiang kai-shek one Qing way now part
of this group tried to resurrect the KMT
left-wing and form a band called the
reorganization Alice whose goal was to
put an end to Chiang kai-shek so-called
dictatorial ways and these left
and warlords all banded together and
formed a rival government in Beijing to
oppose junks government based in Nanjing
and the one who was made the figurehead
leader of this rival government was good
old Yin Shi Shan the model governor he
wasn't happy with Qiang moving in on his
turf so he ended up joining the anti
Jeon coalition I mentioned Yin Shi Shan
graced the cover of time in 1930 with
the caption China's future president
yeah this was that time that cover ended
up being a precursor to Dewey defeats
Truman so who stuck with Chung and
fought on his side for one and I haven't
mentioned them much were the Warlord's
who ran western china all muslims all
members of the MA cleek when hostilities
had broken out in March 1929 and paper
at least with so many Warlord's teamed
up against him it wasn't looking good
for Chang or the Nanjing government but
a combination of good luck and bad
coordination on the warlord coalition's
part helped turn the tide of the central
plains war in favor of the NRA by the
summer 1930 Xian began fighting back and
his generals performed well against the
guanxi warlords lead song Ren and by
Truong Chi Fung you Xiang to up in his
North China lands went down in defeat
then on September 18th 1930
Zhang Xiao Liang hopped down off that
fence and entered the war on Chang side
now following this he immediately went
in and took Beijing and with Jiang Shi
Liang entering the war on xi'an side
that ended up tipping the scales
sufficiently enough so that on November
4th fungus Jung and Yin Shi Shan both
threw in the towel they had tried one
last time to keep the warlord era going
but by November 1930 it really was over
the central plains war pretty much ended
it this whole central plains war the
upshot of it all aside from finally
putting an end to the most offending war
law
birds well it forced junk I checked take
his eye off the ball in his campaigns to
destroy mount Saddam and the chunky
Soviet that he was preparing to set up
in 1931 while Jiang was battling it out
with the Warlord's in the central plains
war the Communists had ample time to
re-energize and get reorganized for all
the trials and tribulations that lay
ahead
anyways I knew this episode was gonna
run a little long and we sort of glossed
over a conflict that from March 1929 in
November 1930 resulted in the deaths of
about 150,000 nationalist soldiers and
though we can never be certain probably
just as many on the warlord side and
whatever happened all these guys these
rascals these these permanent members of
Chinese history's rogues gallery I'll
just run through them real quick Dwan
cheer a after his comeback as chief
executive following the second surely
from ten war from 1922 to 24 hey didn't
have much of a base anymore most of his
on Wake leaked allies had already thrown
in their lot with Chuck so Leland
Dwan ended up in Tianjin living below
the radar and died at the age of 71 in
1936 in Shanghai it's how Kuhn yeah I
left you hanging with him after he got
removed as president and fungus Young's
Beijing coup of 1924 he served two years
under house arrest and then ended up in
that great city of exiles Tianjin where
he died in 1938 aged 75 didn't end well
for it's how Kuhn but at least he got to
be President
she share UN he ended badly this Shirley
stalwart besides going down in two feet
on the wrong side of the central plains
War II ended up being executed in 1946
for collaborating with the Japanese
during the war Jiang Shi Liang of course
later on in December 1936 and one of the
defining moments in his life famously
participated in the Sheehan incidents
involving the kidnapping of Chiang
kai-shek and everything that followed in
the wake of that tragedy he
surrender to Jung after it was done and
lived under house arrest for pretty much
the rest of his life he was taken at
Taiwan in 1949 and lived a quiet life up
in the North suburbs of Taipei when
Chiang kai-shek passed away on April 5th
1975 Zhang Xiao Liang was released from
this symbolic house arrest in 1993 he
moved to Hawaii where he died in 2001 at
the age of a hundred Chairman Mao and
premier Joe both tried to get the young
marshal to come visit China but like
many who left in 49 he never went back
Leo Qian Yin the wretched and violent
warlord of eastern Shandong who caused
so much suffering to the local populace
he ended up on Chong side maybe the bad
side he got sent to Jiang Shi province
to join others who were trying to blast
mile to dong in the communists out of
King Kong Shan he wasn't too hot on the
whole thing and ended up being executed
in 1935 for refusing to obey Jung's
direct order quite a lot of violence and
depravity condensed into the only 37
years that the killer walked this earth
will pay foo in an obituary about will
pay foo Life magazine called him quote
China's only honest warlord he laid low
until the second sino-japanese war broke
out in 1937 Japanese had attempted to
set up this rival government up in North
China in 1939 and went to a lot of
trouble to try and recruit will pay for
as the puppet head of this government he
refused and for his defiance the
Japanese authorities if you believe some
accounts had him poisoned to death the
New York Times in their obituary of will
pay foo written on December 5th 1939
said it this way quote Marshall will pay
fool Chinese poet soldier died today
after an operation for an infected tooth
the Japanese News Agency dome a reported
Marshall Wu had lived in obscurity since
his armies were routed in 1926 by Chiang
kai-shek the Japanese had tried
vainly to enlist his aid marshal Wu was
one of the cultivated Chinese of our
times who attained renown not only for
his scholarship but as a military man
end quote
he lived to 65 and swin chuan Fung now
the northern expedition pretty much put
him out of business he ended up in
Tianjin where he became a monk and lived
in a monastery ten years after swing
chuan Fung executed one of his
commanders shirts home pin and mounted
his head on the end of a pike the man's
daughter Church and shell caught up with
the former Nanking warlord in 1935 and
avenged her father's death with a bullet
to the brain force winch on Fang and
this avenging daughter went on trial for
murder
she received a government pardon and her
act of vengeance was considered
justified in Chang song-chun the good
old dog meat general hay lived by the
sword die by the sword he too had it
coming and he got it in 1932 just like
with swoon chuan Fung an avenging angel
came and smote him for killing his
father the general Jung Ching Chung in
1927 his son Jeong Cheech hung caught up
with the fifty year old dog meat general
and blew him away right at that jinan
train station and Lee Chong ran the
guanxi warlord boy did he ever have a
wild ride after that whole debacle with
the rival government up in Beijing in
1929 and surrendering the Chiang
kai-shek he ended up in his stronghold
of Guang XI and reconciled with Jung
after the Mukden incident in 1931 when
Japan invaded Manchuria and started
taken over up there
he fought brilliantly against Japan
during those terrible years in the late
1930s and early 40s after Jeon bailed in
1949 and fled to Taiwan the dubious
honor of the presidency of the Republic
of China on the mainland went to lead
some grand he ended up leaving as well
but he went to the United States instead
Joe and Lai invited him back in 1965
which was a big deal back then and Lee
Chong Ren took him up on the offer and
returned to China where he died and
in 1969 at the age of 78 the whole nine
warlord Tung Chung sure yeah he had a
rough road after breaking with young and
go in his own way
he returned to the KMT fold to help in
the war effort against the Japanese in
Tung Chung chair if you recall from that
past Nanjing Massacre two-part series
CHP 182 and 183 he was the one John had
put in charge of defending the capital
at Nanjing he didn't have a chance and
during that horrific week in the cold
winter of December 1937 Tung Chung sure
ended up being overwhelmed by the
Japanese war machine and ordered a
general retreat leaving the city of
Nanjing essentially undefended against
the Japanese troops yeah he never lived
that one down the one who allowed the
rape of Nanjing to happen there was
nothing he could have done but he had to
wear that badge of shame a long time he
stayed behind in China after liberation
and died in Changsha Hunan in 1970 aged
80 yen Shi Shan the model governor well
after the Japanese started spreading out
all over North China he fought them at
every turn they also tried to recruit
him to be part of some puppet position
but he wouldn't have any of that he
fought the Japanese until he couldn't
fight anymore he had even cooperated
with the Communists for three years from
1936 to 1939 in fighting Japan but he
had second thoughts about cooperating
with Mao and later turned against him
and fought the Communists bitterly
throughout the Civil War and after
putting up one hell of a fight his army
was defeated and tiring in April 1949
for the next several desperate months
Yin Shi Shan got stuck in Nanjing
mediating between the feuding Chiang
kai-shek and Lee's Holmgren that was a
thankless task
and after he took that final flight to
Taiwan Yin Shi Shen lived a quiet life
Young had promised him the sky once they
got to Taiwan but in the end Chi hung
sideline Yin Shi Shan and there was
nothing to do for the model governor
except
live a quiet retirement writing books
and no doubt looking back on quite a
life
he died on May 24 1960 in Taipei at the
age of 76 from you Xian don't want to
forget him he was defeated in the
central plains war and got into the
criticizing Chiang kai-shek business he
vociferously lambasted John for not
taking the fight to the Japanese
aggressively enough Fung did his part to
stand up to Japan and his slice of
northern China where he had
traditionally held sway there was no
love lost or trust between Fung and Jian
and the Christian warlord was no match
for Chiang kai-shek's political
astuteness in the end well he ended up
holding a number of positions and
Zhang's government while it was still on
the mainland and then after 1945 he
ended up becoming a major critic of Jung
and sympathized more with the Communists
in any case fungus Jung ended up dying
mysteriously on board a vessel sailing
on the Black Sea in 1948 that had caught
fire and sank you can visit his tomb
today next time you find yourself in
Jinan it's located not too far away near
Tai Shan you know all the way until the
end came in 1949 to be honest Jiang
never got rid of these guys they were
defamed following the central plains war
but they were still around
jihong didn't mess with them and they
didn't mess with Jang in fact their
mutual hatred of communism was a kind of
binding agent that allowed these
disparate frenemies to have some
semblance of a common cause so if the
northern expeditions goal was to unify
China under one government we can say it
wasn't achieved and in some ways 1930
wasn't looking too terribly different
from 1922 okay let us abruptly end
things right here I do hope everyone who
had been asking me to cover this topic
all these years left the table full and
satisfied I left out more than I left in
so if this period in China is of
particular interest to you there are
plenty of books and videos out there for
you to Peru
should you want to take a deeper dive
one more mention if you haven't
subscribed yet Matt Cheyenne and Holly
huh go check out Heartland mainland the
Iowa Chyna podcast Matt and Holly spent
a lot of time traveling around the
Hawkeye State so you didn't have to and
what they've learned about us-china
relations through this adventure in the
corn and soybean fields and livestock
farms of Iowa will surprise you Matt
Sheehan he who brought us the venerable
China fornia newsletter and his magnum
opus up til now anyway the trans-pacific
experiment Matt Sheehan and Holly ha
both part of that think tank over at the
Paulson Institute Heartland mainland the
Iowa China podcast my highest
recommendations okay I get the hint
seems patreon isn't for everyone that's
okay if you want to support the show but
you're not the patreon type I fully
understand you can show your love and
support by going to www.medicare.gov
loved' listeners and fans of this China
history podcast gonna be 10 years old in
June of this year 2020 where did the
time go
well I hope you enjoyed that as Bob Peck
it used to say whatever happened to him
this is Lazlo Montgomery signing off
from Los Angeles California calling on
all good and decent people everywhere to
please come back next time for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast